# Dynamic Corrections of Object Motion Under the Influence of Self Motion

Vision is central to our ability to navigate the world. A problem of particular importance is how our brain estimates object motion during self-movement. To address this question, we test the flow parsing hypothesis, i.e., the brain uses global patterns of optic flow on the retina to infer self-motion, then subtracts the inferred self-motion from object motion to give rise to our perception of object motion in the world. This process is referred to as flow parsing. 

The current study set out to replicate Warren and Rushton (2009) to investigate underlying mechanisms of flow parsing in two experiments. Experiment 1 examined the effect of flow parsing when optic flow was present in the vicinity of the probe (i.e., local) or further away from the probe (i.e., global). Our replication results, while underpowered, were consistent with the original study and found that global information has a larger effect on flow parsing than local information. Experiment 2 examined the transferability of flow parsing across the visual field to test for a global mechanism in flow parsing. 

Given a difference in processing in the top and bottom half of the visual field (i.e., hemifield), our replication study modified the conditions to remove the left or right hemifields. Our findings deviated from that of original study, showing no significant effect of flow parsing transfer across the visual field. This limited our ability to conclude that flow parsing is entirely a global mechanism and suggested an underlying local process in flow parsing. 

We extend the original study of Warren and Rushton (2009) by investigating whether, during self-motion, humans use an intrinsically different process to estimate object motion in the top and bottom hemifields. Prior research suggests that optic flow in the bottom hemifield has a larger effect on subjects’ heading responses than optic flow in the top hemifield. Therefore, we expect to see a larger effect of flow parsing in the bottom hemifield than the top hemifield in our on-going study. 
